README.md, before:

# ChatGPT Discord Bot
A GPT powered Discord Bot built with NodeJS.

![Image of the bot](https://i.imgur.com/0VfYZDc.png)

## Features
* Multiple Personality Support: Add multiple personalities and depending on how you call the bot, it will respond differently.
* Enable/Disable/Reset commands for admins.
* Memory: Bot will remember conversations until restarted or reset.
* Message splitter for longer messages that exceed 2000 characters
* TTS: Bot will generate TTS clips from messages using TikTok's TTS api.
* Token Limiter: Set a token limit to prevent the bot from making API calls after that number, or a time limit.
* Conversation history truncator: Cuts down conversation history to save tokens (configurable).

## Dependencies
* nodejs
* npm
   * dotenv
   * discord.js
   * openai
   * tiktok-tts
   * ffmpeg-static
   * child_process
* [OpenAI API Key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)
* [Discord Application Bot](https://discord.com/developers/applications/)
* [TikTok SessionID](#get-tiktok-session-id)

## Setup/Installation
1. Create an [OpenAI API Key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). Copy the key somewhere for usage later.
2. Create a [Discord Application Bot](https://discord.com/developers/applications/). You can follow [this](https://discordjs.guide/preparations/setting-up-a-bot-application.html#creating-your-bot) tutorial. Copy the bot token somewhere for usage later.
3. Get your TikTok `sessonid`. See [below](#get-tiktok-session-id) for instructions.
5. Invite the bot to your server. You can follow [this](https://discordjs.guide/preparations/adding-your-bot-to-servers.html) tutorial.
6. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) for your system. Refer to Google for installation based on OS.
7. Download Source Code from releases or clone this repo for dev build.
8. Run `npm ci` to install NPM dependencies.
9.  Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add all previously mentioned required keys into `.env`. Add 1 or more personalities. Change other options to your liking.
10.  Run `node deploy-commands.js` to deploy the bot's slash commands to discord. See [below](#deploying-commands) for additional details.
11. Finally, run `npm start` or `node index.js` to run the bot.
12. **OPTIONAL** Run the bot in a container if you want to keep your bot active. See [below](#docker) for instructions.

## Usage
Once the server is started, simply send a message containing the personality name you put in the `.env` file and a question, comment, etc. and the bot will respond

**Note:** for both tts commands, options `speaker` or `speaker2` are available. `speaker` contains english speaking voices, and `speaker2` contains any remaining voices. You may **ONLY** specify **ONE** of these.
### Commands
- `/enable`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Enables the bot.
- `/disable`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Disables the bot.
- `/reset [all,<personality_name>]`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Resets the memory of all personalities or a single personality. If personality is ephemeral, sets its prompt to `undefined`.
- `/personality`: Displays all personalities and their prompts.
- `/add-personality <name> <prompt>`: Adds an ephemeral personality to the bot, it will be lost when the bot restarts. Can also update `undefined` prompts. 
- `/tts [<text>,<messageID>] <speaker>`: Generates TTS for given text or message ID. 
- `/say [<number>,<messageID>] <speaker>`: Generates TTS for a bot message `<number>` messages back or a message ID. With no input, uses the last message with `rocket`. Both arguments are optional.
- `/speakers`: Displays speakers available to the `/tts` and `/say` commands. Specify `all` to display extra and non-english voices as well.
- `/sample <speaker>`: Listen to samples of each available speaker to the `/tts` and `/say` commands.
- `/token-count`: Check the current token count and reset time of the bot.
- `/reload`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Reload a command if the code for it has changed.
- `/token-reset`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Reset the token count for the bot.
- `/help`: Displays a help message with all available commands. 
### Config Environment Variables

Use the following environment variables to configure certain features:
- `REPLY_MODE` - Whether or not bot should use Discord replies for messages.
- `BOT_REPLIES` - Whether or not bot should reply to other bots (but never itself).
- `EMBED_RESPONSE` - Whether or not to use embeds when responding (new features will be developed for true).
- `DEFAULT_TTS_SPEAKER` - Used when no speaker is specified in a TTS command.
- `TOKEN_RESET_TIME` - Amount of time (in milliseconds) until the token count resets.
- `TOKEN_NUM` - Amount of maximum completion tokens (doesn't include prompt tokens) that can be used in the time above (applies to all users).
  - If `TOKEN_RESET_TIME` or `TOKEN_NUM` are 0 or not set, token limit will be ignored.

These env vars are dynamic based on the personality. Use \<p> or \<m> as a placeholder for the dynamic messages:
- `DYNAMIC_RESET_MSG` - Bot message for single personality reset.
- `DYNAMIC_TITLE_MSG` - Bot message for the title of embeds. Will be wrapped in \*\* \*\*.
- `TOKEN_LIMIT_MSG` - Bot message for when the token limit is reached.

Personalities:
- `personality_NAME_thumbnail` - The thumbnail for the bot embed picture, optional

### Deploying Commands
<details>
  <summary>Click to expand</summary>
To use the deploy/delete script, run `node ./deploy-commands.js` followed by one or more arguments. The available arguments are:

*   `[env]` (optional): the name of the `.env` file to use. If not specified, the script will use `.env` by default.
*   `-d [command]` (optional): the name of the command to delete. If specified, the script will delete the command with the given id.
*   `-x [file]` (optional): the name of a command file(s) to ignore. If specified, the script will not deploy the command(s) with the given file name(s).

To deploy all commands using the default `.env` file, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js
```

To deploy all commands using a custom `.env` file named `bot2.env`, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env
```

To delete a command, find its command id, then run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env -d COMMAND_ID
```

To deploy all commands except the commands in `ignore.js` and `test.js`, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env -x ignore.js,test.js
```
</details>

## Screenshots

### Multiple Personalities

[![Image of the bot](https://i.gyazo.com/e8ec6a8731779ef537f56de2c603ee3d.gif)](https://gyazo.com/e8ec6a8731779ef537f56de2c603ee3d)

## Get TikTok Session id 🍪
- Install [Cookie Editor extension](https://cookie-editor.cgagnier.ca) for your browser.
- Log in to [TikTok Web](https://tiktok.com)
- While on TikTok web, open the extension and look for ```sessionid```
- Copy the ```sessionid``` value. (It should be an alphanumeric value)

## Docker
- Ensure your `.env` file exists and is populated with the correct values.
- Run `docker build -t gpt-discord-bot .` to build the image.
- Run `docker-compose up -d` to create a stack. This will mount the .env file to `/app/.env` within the container.
- The compose file expects you to provide an additional environment variable to point at the location of the `.env` file to use. Either change this before running, or supply the following:
  - `PROJECT_PATH` - The full path of the directory your `.env` file is in
  - `ENV_NAME` - The name of your `.env` file. Leave blank if just `.env`

## Contributing
Feel free to fork this repo and submit pull requests for different features, fixes, and changes.

Commit message:

update readme remove unused variables update env.example

README.md, after:

# ChatGPT Discord Bot
A GPT powered Discord Bot built with NodeJS.

![Image of the bot](https://i.imgur.com/0VfYZDc.png)

## Features
* Multiple Personality Support: Add multiple personalities and depending on how you call the bot, it will respond differently.
* Enable/Disable/Reset commands for admins.
* Memory: Bot will remember conversations until restarted or reset.
* Message splitter for longer messages that exceed 2000 characters
* TTS: Bot will generate TTS clips from messages using TikTok's TTS api.
* Token Limiter: Set a token limit to prevent the bot from making API calls after that number, or a time limit.
* Conversation history truncator: Cuts down conversation history to save tokens (configurable).

## Dependencies
* nodejs
* npm
   * dotenv
   * discord.js
   * openai
   * tiktok-tts
   * ffmpeg-static
   * child_process
* [OpenAI API Key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys)
* [Discord Application Bot](https://discord.com/developers/applications/)
* [TikTok SessionID](#get-tiktok-session-id)

## Setup/Installation
1. Create an [OpenAI API Key](https://platform.openai.com/account/api-keys). Copy the key somewhere for usage later.
2. Create a [Discord Application Bot](https://discord.com/developers/applications/). You can follow [this](https://discordjs.guide/preparations/setting-up-a-bot-application.html#creating-your-bot) tutorial. Copy the bot token somewhere for usage later.
3. Get your TikTok `sessonid`. See [below](#get-tiktok-session-id) for instructions.
5. Invite the bot to your server. You can follow [this](https://discordjs.guide/preparations/adding-your-bot-to-servers.html) tutorial.
6. Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/) for your system. Refer to Google for installation based on OS.
7. Download Source Code from releases or clone this repo for dev build.
8. Run `npm ci` to install NPM dependencies.
9.  Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add all previously mentioned required keys into `.env`. Add 1 or more personalities. Change other options to your liking.
10.  Run `node deploy-commands.js` to deploy the bot's slash commands to discord. See [below](#deploying-commands) for additional details.
11. Finally, run `npm start` or `node index.js` to run the bot.
12. **OPTIONAL** Run the bot in a container if you want to keep your bot active. See [below](#docker) for instructions.

## Usage
Once the server is started, simply send a message containing the personality name you put in the `.env` file and a question, comment, etc. and the bot will respond

**Note:** for both tts commands, options `speaker` or `speaker2` are available. `speaker` contains english speaking voices, and `speaker2` contains any remaining voices. You may **ONLY** specify **ONE** of these.
### Commands
- `/enable`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Enables the bot.
- `/disable`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Disables the bot.
- `/reset [all,<personality_name>]`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Resets the memory of all personalities or a single personality. If personality is ephemeral, sets its prompt to `undefined`.
- `/personality`: Displays all personalities and their prompts.
- `/add-personality <name> <prompt>`: Adds an ephemeral personality to the bot, it will be lost when the bot restarts. Can also update `undefined` prompts. 
- `/tts [<text>,<messageID>] <speaker>`: Generates TTS for given text or message ID. 
- `/say [<number>,<messageID>] <speaker>`: Generates TTS for a bot message `<number>` messages back or a message ID. With no input, uses the last message with `rocket`. Both arguments are optional.
- `/speakers`: Displays speakers available to the `/tts` and `/say` commands. Specify `all` to display extra and non-english voices as well.
- `/sample <speaker>`: Listen to samples of each available speaker to the `/tts` and `/say` commands.
- `/token-count`: Check the current token count and reset time of the bot.
- `/reload`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Reload a command if the code for it has changed.
- `/token-reset`: ***(Admins ONLY)*** Reset the token count for the bot.
- `/help`: Displays a help message with all available commands. 
### Config Environment Variables

Use the following environment variables to configure certain features:
- `REPLY_MODE` - Whether or not bot should use Discord replies for messages.
- `BOT_REPLIES` - Whether or not bot should reply to other bots (but never itself).
- `EMBED_RESPONSE` - Whether or not to use embeds when responding (new features will be developed for true).
- `DEFAULT_TTS_SPEAKER` - Used when no speaker is specified in a TTS command.
- `TOKEN_RESET_TIME` - Amount of time (in milliseconds) until the token count resets.
- `TOKEN_NUM` - Amount of maximum completion tokens (doesn't include prompt tokens) that can be used in the time above (applies to all users).
  - If `TOKEN_RESET_TIME` or `TOKEN_NUM` are 0 or not set, token limit will be ignored.
- `MSG_LIMIT` - Number of messages to keep in conversation history. (includes user and bot messages)
  - If `MSG_LIMIT` is 0 or not set, message limit will be ignored

These env vars are dynamic based on the personality. See `.env.example` for usage:
- `DYNAMIC_RESET_MSG` - Bot message for single personality reset.
- `DYNAMIC_TITLE_MSG` - Bot message for the title of embeds. Will be wrapped in \*\* \*\*.
- `TOKEN_LIMIT_MSG` - Bot message for when the token limit is reached.
- `TOKEN_RESET_MSG` - Bot message when `/token-reset` is used.
- `ADDED_PERSONALITY_MSG` - Bot message when a new personality is added.

Personalities:
- `personality_NAME_thumbnail` - The thumbnail for the bot embed picture, optional

### Deploying Commands
<details>
  <summary>Click to expand</summary>
To use the deploy/delete script, run `node ./deploy-commands.js` followed by one or more arguments. The available arguments are:

*   `[env]` (optional): the name of the `.env` file to use. If not specified, the script will use `.env` by default.
*   `-d [command]` (optional): the name of the command to delete. If specified, the script will delete the command with the given id.
*   `-x [file]` (optional): the name of a command file(s) to ignore. If specified, the script will not deploy the command(s) with the given file name(s).

To deploy all commands using the default `.env` file, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js
```

To deploy all commands using a custom `.env` file named `bot2.env`, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env
```

To delete a command, find its command id, then run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env -d COMMAND_ID
```

To deploy all commands except the commands in `ignore.js` and `test.js`, run:

```bash
node ./deploy-commands.js bot2.env -x ignore.js,test.js
```
</details>

## Screenshots

### Multiple Personalities

[![Image of the bot](https://i.gyazo.com/e8ec6a8731779ef537f56de2c603ee3d.gif)](https://gyazo.com/e8ec6a8731779ef537f56de2c603ee3d)

## Get TikTok Session id 🍪
- Install [Cookie Editor extension](https://cookie-editor.cgagnier.ca) for your browser.
- Log in to [TikTok Web](https://tiktok.com)
- While on TikTok web, open the extension and look for ```sessionid```
- Copy the ```sessionid``` value. (It should be an alphanumeric value)

## Docker
- Ensure your `.env` file exists and is populated with the correct values.
- Run `docker build -t gpt-discord-bot .` to build the image.
- Run `docker-compose up -d` to create a stack. This will mount the .env file to `/app/.env` within the container.
- The compose file expects you to provide an additional environment variable to point at the location of the `.env` file to use. Either change this before running, or supply the following:
  - `PROJECT_PATH` - The full path of the directory your `.env` file is in
  - `ENV_NAME` - The name of your `.env` file. Leave blank if just `.env`

## Contributing
Feel free to fork this repo and submit pull requests for different features, fixes, and changes.
